good evening everybody welcome to the
White House Correspondents Dinner the
night when Washington celebrates itself
somebody's got to do it and welcome to
the fourth quarter of my presidency it's
true why that was Michelle cheering fact
is I feel more loose and relaxed than
ever
those Joe Biden's shoulder massages
they're like magic there's a trauma or
you have
I am to make the most of every moment I
have left after the midterm elections my
advisers asked me mr. president do you
have a bucket list and I said well I
have something that rhymes with bucket
list
take executive action on immigration
bucket
this Harmon regulations bucket right
thing to do
my new attitude is paying off look at my
Cuba policy the Castro brothers are here
tonight welcome to America I move us que
pasa what it's for Castro's from Texas
Oh Iowa cream hi who Leone anyway being
president is never easy I still have to
fix a broken immigration system issue
veto threats negotiate with Iran all
while finding time to pray five times a
day
and it is no wonder that people keep
pointing out how the presidency has aged
me I look so old John Boehner czar to
invited Netanyahu to speak at my funeral
meanwhile Miss has an age today
I asked her what her secret is she just
says fresh fruits and vegetables it's
aggravating
fact is though at this point my legacy
is finally beginning to take shape the
economy is getting better 9 in 10
Americans now have health coverage today
thanks to Obamacare you no longer have
to worry about losing your insurance if
you lose your job you're welcome Senate
Democrats
not look it is true I have not managed
to make everybody happy
six years into my presidency some people
still say I'm arrogant and aloof
condescending some people are so dumb no
wonder I don't meet with them
and that's not all people say about me a
few weeks ago Dick Cheney says he thinks
I'm the worst president of his lifetime
which is interesting because I think
Dick Cheney is the worst president of my
lifetime
what a coincidence
everybody's got something to say these
days Mike Huckabee recently said people
shouldn't join our military until a true
conservative is elected president think
about that rageous 47 ayatollahs wrote
us a letter trying to explain to
huckabee how our system works
it gets worse just this week Michelle
Bachman ash actually predicted that I
would bring about the biblical end of
days now that's a legacy as big
I mean Lincoln Washington they didn't do
that
but you know I just had to put this
stuff aside I've got to stay focused on
my job because for many Americans this
is still a time of deep uncertainty for
example I have a I have one friend just
a few weeks ago she was making millions
of dollars a year and she's now living
out of a van in Iowa
meanwhile back in our nation's capital
we're always dealing with new challenges
I'm happy to report that the Secret
Service thanks to some excellent
reporting by white house correspondents
they're really focusing on some of the
issues that have come up and they
finally figured out a foolproof way to
keep people off my lawn
as works as not just fence jumpers a few
months ago a drone crash landed out back
that was pretty serious but don't worry
we've installed a new state-of-the-art
security system
you know what let me set the record
straight
you know I tease Joe sometimes but he
has been at my side for seven years I
love that man he's not just a great vice
president he is a great friend I we've
gotten so close in some places in
Indiana they won't serve us pizza
anymore
I want to thank our hosts for the
evening Chicago girl be incredibly
talented Cicely strong on Saturday Night
Live Cicely impersonates CNN anchor
Brooke Baldwin which is surprising
because usually the only people
impersonating journalists on CNN are
journalists on CNN
ABC is here with some of the stars from
their big new comedy blackish it's a
great show but I have to give ABC fair
warning being blackish only makes you
popular for so long
trust me there's a shelf-life to that
thing
as always the reporters here had a lot
to cover over the last year here on the
East Coast one big story was the brutal
winter the polar vortex blows they
renamed it MSNBC
but of course let's face it there is one
issue on every reporter's minds and that
is 2016 already we've seen some missteps
it turns out Jeb Bush identified himself
as Hispanic back in 2009 what you know
what I look I understand it's an
innocent mistake reminds me of when I
identified myself as American back in
Ted Cruz said that denying the existence
of climate change may made him like
Galileo now that's not really an apt
comparison Galileo believed the Earth
revolves around the Sun Ted Cruz
believes the Earth revolves around Ted
Cruz and this is an aside I want to
point out when a guy who has his face on
a hope poster calls you self-centered
you know you've got a problem
the narcissism index is creeping up a
little too high
meanwhile Rick Santorum announced that
he would not attend the same-sex wedding
of a friend or a loved one to which gays
and lesbians across the country
responded that's not going to be a
problem don't sweat that one and Donald
Trump is here
still
anyway it's amazing how time flies
soon the first presidential contest will
take place and I for one cannot wait to
see who the Koch brothers pick it's
exciting Marco Rubio Rand Paul Ted Cruz
Jeb Bush Scott Walker who will finally
get that red rose
the winner gets a billion dollar war
chest
the runner-up gets to be the bachelor on
the next season of The Bachelor
mysteriously a billion dollars from just
two guys is it just me or does that feel
a little excessive it's almost insulting
to the candidates though the Koch
brothers think they need to spend a
billion dollars to get folks to like one
of these people it's got to hurt their
feelings a little bit and look I know
I've raised a lot of money too but in
all fairness my middle name is Hussein
what's the excuse
the trail hasn't been easy for my fellow
Democrats either as we all know
Hillary's private emails got her in
trouble frankly I thought it was going
to be a private Instagram account that
was going to cause her bigger problems
hilary kicks things off by going
completely unrecognized and it's your
polling not to be outdone martin
o'malley kick things off completely
unrecognized that a martin o'malley
campaign event
and Bernie Sanders might run
I like burning Bernie's an interesting
guy
apparently some folks really want to see
a pot-smoking socialist in the White
House we could get a third Obama term
after all could happen
anyway as always I want to close on a
more serious note and I often joke about
tensions between me and the press but
honestly what they say doesn't bother me
I understand we've got an adversarial
system I'm a mellow sort of guy and
that's why I invited Luther my anger
translator to join me here tonight
hold on to your lily-white butts in our
fast-changing world traditions like the
White House Correspondents Dinner are
important
because despite our differences we count
on the press to shed light on the most
important issues of the day then we
could count on Fox News to terrify all
white people responses
ridiculous we won't always see eye to
eye in CNN thank you so much for the
wall-to-wall Ebola coverage but two
whole weeks we were one step away from
the walking dead that was awesome oh and
by the way just if you've noticed you
don't have Ebola but I still deeply
appreciate the work that you do don't
know what I had that big old hole in the
bottom of the Gulf of Mexico and then I
plugged it remember that which Obama's
Katrina was that one was at 19 over was
a 22 doctor I can remember protecting
our democracy is more important than
ever for example the Supreme Court ruled
that the donor who gave Ted Cruz six
million dollars was just exercising free
speech yeah it's the kind of speech like
this I just wasted six million dollars
and it's not just Republicans Hillary
will have to rage use sums of money - Oh
so go get that money she'll get off all
the money Khaleesi is coming to Westeros
Oh an unsent focus on billionaire donors
creates real problems for our democracy
that's why we've got it no we're not
we're not who the hell said that
but we do need to stay focused on some
big challenges like climate change this
is odd you haven't noticed California is
bone dry it looked like a trailer for
the new Mad Max movie up in there y'all
think that Bradley Cooper came here
because he wants to talk to Chuck Todd
he needed a glass of water
the science is clear
the science is clear nine out of the ten
hottest years ever came in the last
decade not a lot of scientists but I do
know how to conjugate rising seas more
violent storms got mosquitos sweaty
people on the train stinking it up is
just nasty look at is what look at
what's happening right now every serious
scientist says we need to act the
Pentagon says it's a national security
risk Miami floods on a sunny day and
instead of doing anything about it we've
got elected officials throwing snowballs
in the Senate it's okay I think I got it
Brian it is crazy what about our kids
what kind of stupid short-sighted
irresponsible Hey
whoa all due respect sir you don't need
an anger translator you need counsel and
I'm out of here man I try to get into
all this go
Luther my anger translator is young
now that I got that off my chest
you know investigative journalism
explanatory Pleasant journalism that
exposes corruption and injustice and
gives voice to the different and the
marginalized the voiceless that's power
it's a privilege it's as important to
America's trajectory to our values our
ideals than anything that we could do in
elected office we remember journalists
we lost over the past year journalists
like steven sotloff and james foley
murdered for nothing more than trying to
shine a light into some of the world's
darkest corners
we remember the journalists unjustly
imprisoned around the world including
our own jason raize an for nine months
jason has been imprisoned in Tehran for
nothing more than writing about the
hopes and the fears of the Iranian
people carrying their stories to the
readers of The Washington Post an effort
to bridge our common humanity as was
already mentioned Jason's brother Ali is
here tonight and I have told him
personally we will not rest until we
bring him home to his family safe and
sound
these journalists and so many others
view their work is more than just a
profession but as a public good an
indispensable pillar of our society so I
want to give a toast to them
I raise a glass to them and all of you
with the words of the American foreign
correspondent Dorothy Thompson it is not
the fact of Liberty Liberty is exercised
that ultimately determines whether
Liberty itself survives thank you for
your devotion to exercising our Liberty
and in telling our American story god
bless you god bless the United States of
America